Hello and welcome.
In this video,
we'll learn a machine learning method called
Logistic Regression which is used for classification.
In examining this method, we'll specifically
answer these three questions.
What is logistic regression?
What kind of problems can be solved by logistic
regression?
In which situations do we use logistic regression?
So let's get started.
Logistic regression is a statistical and machine
learning technique for classifying records
of a dataset based on the values of the input
fields.
Let's say we have a telecommunication dataset
that we'd like to
analyze in order to understand which customers
might leave us next month.
This is historical customer data where each
row represents one customer.
Imagine that you're an analyst at this company
and you have to find out who is leaving and
why?
You'll use the dataset to build a model based
on
historical records and use it to predict the
future churn within the customer group.
The dataset includes information about services
that
each customer has signed up for, customer
account information, demographic information
about customers like gender and age range
and also customers who've left the company
within the last month.
The column is called churn.
We can use logistic regression to build a
model for
predicting customer churn using the given
features.
In logistic regression, we use one or more
independent variables such as tenure, age,
and income to predict an outcome, such as
churn, which we call the dependent variable
representing whether or not customers will
stop using the service.
Logistic regression is analogous to linear
regression but tries to predict a categorical
or discrete target field instead of a numeric
one.
In linear regression, we might try to predict
a continuous value of variables such as the
price of a house, blood pressure of a patient,
or fuel consumption of a car.
But in logistic regression, we predict a variable
which is binary such as yes/no, true/false,
successful or not successful, pregnant/not
pregnant,
and so on, all of which can be coded as zero
or one.
In logistic regression independent variables
should be continuous.
If categorical, they should be dummy or indicator
coded.
This means we have to transform them to some
continuous value.
Please note that logistic regression can be
used for both binary classification and multi-class
classification.
But for simplicity in this video,
we'll focus on binary classification.
Let's examine some applications of logistic
regression before we explain how they work.
As mentioned, logistic regression is a type
of classification algorithm, so it can be
used in different situations.
For example, to predict the probability of
a person having a heart attack within a specified
time period, based on our knowledge of the
person's age,
sex, and body mass index.
Or to predict the chance of mortality in an
injured patient or to predict whether a patient
has a given disease such as diabetes based
on
observed characteristics of that patient such
as weight,
height, blood pressure, and results of various
blood tests and so on.
In a marketing context, we can use it to predict
the likelihood of a customer purchasing
a product or halting a subscription as we've
done in our churn example.
We can also use logistic regression to predict
the probability of failure of a given process,
system or product.
We can even use it to predict the likelihood
of a homeowner defaulting on a mortgage.
These are all good examples of problems that
can be solved using logistic regression.
Notice that in all these examples not only
do we predict the class of each case,
we also measure the probability of a case
belonging to a specific class.
There are different machine algorithms which
can classify or estimate a variable.
The question is, when should we use logistic
regression?
Here are four situations in which logistic
regression is a good candidate.
First, when the target field in your data
is categorical or specifically is binary.
Such as zero/one, yes/no, churn or no churn,
positive/negative and so on.
Second, you need the probability of your prediction.
For example, if you want to know what the
probability is of a customer buying a product.
Logistic regression returns a probability
score between zero and one for a given sample
of data.
In fact, logistic regression predicts the
probability of that sample and we map the
cases to a discrete class based on that probability.
Third, if your data is linearly separable.
The decision boundary of logistic regression
is a line or a plane or a hyper plane.
A classifier will classify all the points
on one side of the decision boundary as belonging
to one class and all those on the other side
as belonging to the other class.
For example, if we have just two features
and are not applying any polynomial processing
we can obtain an inequality like Theta zero
plus Theta 1x1 plus theta 2x2 is greater than
zero,
which is a half-plane easily plottable.
Please note that in using logistic regression,
we can also achieve a complex decision boundary
using polynomial processing as well,
which is out of scope here.
You'll get more insight from
decision boundaries when you understand how
logistic regression works.
Fourth, you need to understand the impact
of a feature.
You can select the best features based on
the statistical significance of the logistic
regression model coefficients or parameters.
That is, after finding the optimum parameters,
a feature X with the weight Theta one close
to zero has
a smaller effect on the prediction than features
with large absolute values of Theta one.
Indeed, it allows us to understand the impact
an independent variable
has on the dependent variable while controlling
other independent variables.
Let's look at our dataset again.
We defined the independent variables as X
and dependent variable as Y.
Notice, that for the sake of simplicity we
can code the target or dependent values to
zero or one.
The goal of logistic regression is to build
a model to predict the class of each sample
which in this case is a customer, as well
as the probability of each sample belonging
to a class.
Given that, let's start to formalize the problem.
X is our dataset in the space of real numbers
of m by n.
That is, of m dimensions or features and n
records, and Y is the class that we want to
predict,
which can be either zero or one.
Ideally, a logistic regression model, so-called
Y hat, can predict that the class of the customer
is one, given its features X.
It can also be shown quite easily that the
probability of a customer being in class zero
can be calculated as one minus the probability
that the class of the customer is one.
Thanks for watching this video.
(Music)